by now you've seen a range of different
learning algorithms we've been
supervised learning the performance of
many supervised learning algorithms will
be pretty similar and what matters less
will often be whether you use learning
out from a or learning R&B but what
matters more will often be things like
the amount of data you train these
algorithms on that's always your skill
in applying these algorithms things like
your choice of the features that you
design to give these learning algorithms
and how you choose the regularization
parameter and things like that but
there's one more algorithm that is very
powerful and is very widely used both
within industry and in academia and
that's called the support vector machine
and compared to both logistic regression
and neural networks the support vector
machine or the SVM sometimes gives a
cleaner and sometimes more powerful way
of learning complex nonlinear functions
and so like to take the next videos to
talk about that later in this course I
will do a quick survey of a range of
different supervised learning algorithms
just as a very briefly describe them but
the support vector machine or giving us
popularity in home-home for this this
will be the last of these supervised
learning algorithms that I'll spend a
significant amount of time on in this
course as with our development of other
learning algorithms we're going to start
by talking about the optimization
objective so let's get started on this
algorithm in order to describe the
support vector machine I'm actually
going to start with logistic regression
and show how we can modify it a bit and
get what is essentially the support
vector machine so in logistic regression
we have our familiar form of the
hypothesis there and the sigmoid
activation function shown on the right
and in order to explain some of the map
I'm going to use Z to denote theta
transpose X here now let's think about
what we would like logistic regression
to do if we have an example with y
equals 1 and by this side I mean an
example in either the training set or
the test set you know or the
cross-validation set but if Y is equal
to 1 then we're sort of hoping that H of
X will be close to 1 so right we're
hoping they'll correctly classify that
example and what having HR x close to 1
what that means is that theta transpose
X must be much larger than 0 so this is
greater than greater than sign that
means much much greater than 0 and
that's because it is Z that is theta
transpose X is when Z is much bigger
than 0 is far to the right of this
figure that you know the output of
logistic regression becomes close to 1
conversely if we have an example where Y
is equal to 0 then what we're hoping for
is that the hypothesis will output a
value close to 0 and that corresponds to
theta transpose X or Z be much less than
0 because that corresponds to the
hypothesis outputting a value close to 0
if you look at the cost function of
logistic regression what you find is
that each example X comma Y contributes
a term like this to the overall cost
function right so for the overall cost
function we usually we will also have a
sum over all the training examples and 1
over m term but this expression here
that's the term that a single training
example contributes to the overall
objective function for logistic
regression now if I take the definition
for the form of my hypothesis and
plugged it in over here then what I get
is that each training example
contributes this term right ignoring the
1 over M but it contributes that term to
my overall cost function for logistic
regression now let's consider the two
cases of when Y is equal to 1 and when y
is equal to 0
in the first case let's suppose that y
is equal to one in that case only this
first term in the objective matters
because this 1 minus y term would be
equal to 0 if Y is equal to 1 so when y
is equal to 1 when in our example X
comma Y when y is equal to 1 what we get
is this term minus log of 1 over 1 plus
the e to the negative Z where as similar
to last slide I'm using Z to denote
theta transpose X and of course in the
cost we actually have this minus y but
we just said if Y is equal to 1 so
that's equal to 1 I just simplified it
away in the expression that I have
written down here and if we plug this
function as a function of Z what you
find is that you get this curve shown on
the lower left of the slide and thus we
also see that when Z is equal to launch
that is when theta transpose X is large
that corresponds to a value of Z that
gives us a fairly small value a very
fairly small contribution to the cost
function and this kind of explains why
when logistic regression sees a positive
example with y equals 1 it tries to set
theta transpose X to be very large
because that corresponds to this term in
the cost function being small now to
build a support vector machine here's
what we're going to do we're going to
take this cost function this minus log 1
over 1 plus Z is a negative Z and modify
it a little bit let me take let me take
this point 1 over here and let me draw
the cost function I'm going to use the
new cost function is going to be flat
from here on out and then I'm going to
draw something that grows as a straight
line similar to logistic regression that
this is going to be a straight line
distortion so the curve that I just drew
in magenta the curves I just drew perp
or magenta so it was a pretty close
approximation to the cost function used
by logistic regression except that is
now made up of two line segments this is
flat portion on the right and then
is a straight line portion on the left
and don't worry too much about the slope
of the straight line portion it doesn't
matter that much but that's the new cost
function we're going to use but when y
is equal to one and you can imagine it
should do something pretty similar to
logistic regression but turns out that
this will give the support vector
machine computational advantages and
give us later on an easier optimization
problem that that would be easier for
software to solve we just talked about
the case of y equals one the other case
is if y is equal to zero in that case if
you look at the cost then only the
second term will apply because the first
term goes away where Y is equal to zero
then nearly over zero here so you're
left only with the second term in the
expression above and so the cost of an
example or the contribution of the cost
function is going to be given by this
term over here and if you plot that as a
function of Z so I have here Z on the
horizontal axis you end up with this
curve and for the support vector machine
once again we're going to replace this
blue line with something similar and in
particular I'm going to replace it with
a new cost this flat out here there's
zero out here and that then grows as a
straight line like so so let me give
these two functions names this function
on the left I'm going to call cost
subscript 1 of Z and this function on
the right I'm going to call cost
subscript 0 of Z and the subscript just
refers to the cost corresponding to an y
is equal to 1 versus and y is equal to 0
armed with these definitions we're now
ready to build a support vector machine
here's the cost function J of theta that
we have for logistic regression in case
this equation looks a bit unfamiliar is
because previously we had a minus sign
outside but here what I did was I
instead move the minus signs inside this
expression so just it makes it look a
little bit different
for the support vector machine what
we're going to do is essentially take
this and replace this with cost one of Z
that is cost one of theta transpose X
and I'm going to take this and replace
it with cost zero of Z that is of cause
zero of theta transpose X where where
the cost one function is what we had on
the previous slide that looks like this
and the cost zero function again what we
had on the previous slide that looks
like this so what we have for the
support vector machine is a minimization
problem of 1 over m sum over my training
examples of y:i x plus 1 theta transpose
X I plus 1 minus y I times 0 of theta
transpose X I and then plus my usual
regularization parameter like so now by
convention for the support vector
machine we actually write things
slightly differently or we parameterize
this just very slightly differently
first we're going to get rid of the 1
over m terms and this just distance just
happens to be a slightly different
convention that people use for support
vector machines compared to for logistic
regression but here's what I mean you're
what I'm going to do is I'm just going
to get rid of these 1 over m terms and
this should give me the same optimal
value for theta right because 1 over m
is just a constant so you know whether I
solve this minimization problem with 1
over m in front or not I should end up
with the same optimal value for theta
here's what I mean to give you a
concrete example suppose I had a
minimization problem that you minimize
over a real number U of U minus 5
squared plus 1 right well the minimum of
this happens happen to know the minimum
of this is U equals 5 now if I were to
take this objective function and
multiply it by 10 so here my
minimization problem is min over U of 10
u minus 5 squared plus 10 well the value
of U that minimizes this is still u
equals 5 right so multiplying something
that you're minimizing over by some
constant 10 in this case it does not
change the value of U that gives us that
that minimizes this function so in the
same way what I've done by crossing out
this M is on doing is multiplying my
objective function by some constant M
and it doesn't change the value of theta
that achieves the minimum the second bit
of notational change which is just again
the most standard convention when using
SVM's instead of logistic regression
there's a following so for logistic
regression we had two terms two the
objective function the first is this
term which is the cost that comes from
the training set and the second is this
term which the regularization term and
what we had was we had a control the
trade-off between these by saying you
know we wanted to minimize a plus and
then my regularization parameter lambda
and then times some of the term B where
I guess I'm using your a to denote this
first term and I'm using B to denote
that second term maybe without the
lambda and instead of parametrizing this
is a plus lambda B we could and so what
we did was by setting different values
for this regularization parameter lambda
we could trade off the relative way
between how much we want to fit the
training set well that is minimizing a
versus how much we care about keeping
the values of the parameters small so
that would be the parameters B for the
support vector machine just by
convention we're going to use a
different parameter so instead of using
lambda here to control the relative
weighting between you know the first and
second terms once they are going to use
a different parameter which by
convention is called C
and when is that going to minimize C
times a plus B so for logistic
regression if we set a very large value
of lambda that means you know give be a
very high weight here is that if we set
C to be very small value that that
corresponds to giving be much larger
weight than C than eight so this is just
a different way of controlling the trade
off or just a different way of
parameterizing how much we care about
optimizing the first term versus how
much we care about optimizing the second
term and if you want you can think of
this as the parameter C playing a role
similar to 1 over lambda and it's not
that these two equations or these two
expressions will be equal x equals 1
over lambda that's not the case my
rather is that if C is equal to 1 over
lambda then these two optimization
objectives should give you the same
value the same optimal value for theta
so just filling that in and when I cross
out lambda here and write in the
constant C there so that gives us our
overall optimization objective function
for the support vector machine and when
you minimize that function then what you
have is the parameters learnt by the SVM
finally unlike logistic regression the
support vector machine doesn't output
the probability instead what we have is
we have this cost function which we
minimize to get the parameters theta and
what a support vector machine does is it
just makes a prediction of y be equal 1
or 0 directly so the hypothesis will
predict 1 if theta transpose X is
greater than or equal to 0 and a predict
0 otherwise and so having learned the
parameters theta this is the form of the
hypothesis for the support vector
machine so that was a mathematical
definition of what the support vector
machine does in the next few videos
let's try to get better intuition about
what this optimization objective leads
to it whether the source of the
hypothesis SVM will learn and also talk
about how to modify this just a little
bit to learn complex nonlinear functions